---
title: FACT
date: 2023-01-01
subtitle: Functional Algebra for Continuous-Time Modeling
image: '/images/fact/fact.png'
---

Modeling continuous-time systems is a fundamental task in various scientific and engineering disciplines.
Traditional modeling approaches often lack the composability and abstraction capabilities desired for complex system analysis.
There is a need for a domain-specific language (DSL) that facilitates the modeling of continuous-time systems with a strong mathematical foundation and support for functional programming paradigms.

<h2>Proposed Solution</h2> 

FACT (Functional Algebra for Continuous Time) is a domain-specific language developed in Haskell for modeling continuous-time systems.
It is inspired by the Aivika simulation library and aims to provide a composable and expressive framework for system modeling.

Key features include:
- Functional Algebra: FACT leverages Haskell's functional programming capabilities to define and compose continuous-time models elegantly.
- Literate Programming: The project employs literate programming techniques, ensuring that documentation and source code are intertwined, enhancing readability and maintainability.
- Simulation Examples: Includes examples like the Lorenz Attractor to demonstrate the modeling capabilities and provide benchmarks.

<h2>Potential Impact</h2>

FACT offers a robust platform for researchers and practitioners to model and simulate continuous-time systems with precision and clarity.
By integrating functional programming principles, it enhances the modularity and reusability of models, potentially accelerating development cycles in scientific computing and engineering applications.

<h2>References</h2>

E. Medeiros, E. Peixoto and E. Lemos, "FACT: A Domain-Specific Language Based on a Functional Algebra for Continuous Time Modeling," 2023 Winter Simulation Conference (WSC), San Antonio, TX, USA, 2023, pp. 2650-2661, doi: 10.1109/WSC60868.2023.10408703.

[FACT github repo](https://github.com/FP-Modeling/fact)

<h2>Students</h2>

- 2023-2025: Eduardo Lemos Rocha, Master's in Computer Science, University of Brasília.
